RF EMI to STIX Notional Mapping

Updated:

- 06/26/2025 - with additional use cases to begin mapping towards &
  building in CTIX. /HF

- 07/08/2025 - with SMOS anomaly cross reference (Use Case #5) and proof
  of concept cross walk after generating the relationship diagram in
  CTIX. //HF

Introduction:

The purpose of this document is to annotate mapping RF EMI events to the
STIX 2.1 framework through a series of publicly available and member
submitted reports. The desired information elements are listed below.
Each example report has had all available items extracted and mapped to
the existing STIX 2.1 framework. Highlighted items did not intuitively
map to existing STIX Domain Objects (SDOs) and may constitute the
creation of unique SDOs and/or attributes. The majority of these data
points were aggregated into the “description” attribute.

All data received from member organizations has been obfuscated in
accordance with Space ISAC Operating Rules.

Consolidated Reporting Components: 

This chart maps the assumed reporting elements for RF EMI events and
assesses the ability to map them to current STIX 2.1 representations.
This exercise operates under the assumption that all elements can be
mapped, whether as an SDO or attribute. Many of these items were
included in the “description” attribute of various SDOs as a catch all.
Items highlighted in red constitute data elements that did not have a
strong, straightforward mapping.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Reporting Element          Data        STIX 2.1 Mapping    Revised
                                                             Terminology
  -------------------------- ----------- ------------------- -----------------
  Aerospace SPARTA TTP       SDO         Attack Pattern      

  Anomaly Details            SDO         Intrusion Set       Incident

  Anomaly Type Capture       Attribute   Intrusion Set >     Incident >
                                         Description         Description

  Any additional anomalies   Attribute   Intrusion Set >     
  captured                               Description         

  Associated Ground Station  SDO         Infrastructure      
  at Point of Impact or                                      
  Anomaly                                                    

  Exhibited Anomaly Capture  Attribute   Intrusion Set >     Incident >
  (Narrative)                            Description         Description

  Exhibited Anomaly Payload  Attribute   Incident >          Incident >
  Impact                                 Description         Impact_refs

  Frequency Band Impacted    Attribute   Incident >          
                                         Description         

  GPS time, ECEF position    Attribute   Incident >          
  and velocity                           Description         

  MITRE ATT&CK TTP           SDO         Attack Pattern      

  MITRE D3FEND               SDO         Course of Action    

  MITRE FIGHT TTP            SDO         Attack Pattern      

  NORAD ID                   SDO         Identity            

  Orbit (LEO, SSO, HEO, MEO, Attribute   Identity >          Location >
  GEO)                                   Description         Description

  Orbital Altitude at Point  Attribute   Incident >          Incident >
  of Anomaly Capture                     Description         event_refs

  Polarization               Attribute   Incident >          
                                         Description         

  Post Event Status of       Attribute   Incident >          
  Satellite                              Description         

  Sensor Field of View       Attribute   Incident >          
                                         Description         

  Sensor Pointing Angle(s)   Attribute   Incident >          
  During Anomaly                         Description         

  Terrestrial Lat/Long (SSO  SDO         Location            
  and LEO)                                                   

  TLE Before & TLE After     Attribute   Incident >          
                                         Description         

  Uplink or Downlink         SDO         Infrastructure      
  Impacted                                                   

  UTC Correlated Event       Attribute   Intrusion Set >     Event .
  Start/Stop (Provides                   First Seen/Last     start_time,
  Duration)                              Seen                end_time
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Notional Reporting Format

- Title:

- Summary:

- Anomaly Details:

  - Type

  - Date

  - Start Time

  - Stop Time

  - Beam Format

  - Pulse Duration/Time Between Pulses

  - Laser Color

  - Wavelength Frequency

- Satellite/Sensor Details

  - Satellite Constellation

  - Satellite(s) Affected

  - Satellite Location at Anomaly Start

  - Satellite Location at Anomaly End

  - Sensor Wavelength/Frequency Operating Range

  - Sensor Pointing Angle(s) During Anomaly

  - Sensor Field of View

  - Sensor Effect

  - Post Event Status of Satellite

  - Event Association

Use Case #1

TITLE: RF Anomaly incident Report ID:00001

SUMMARY:  

Polaris 99 (NORAD ID 12345) experienced RFI while collecting over
Belarus. Diagnostics lead us to believe this event was not internally
generated by Cave of the Winds. Graphics are below and attached.  

NOTE 1: Resources are being generated and all files will be pushed to
the relevant S3 bucket. 

NOTE 2: This collection was not for a USG tasking. 

Cave of the Winds CollectID / Product Reference # is XXXXXXXX 

Image IDs are: N/A 

  

ANOMALY DETAILS:

a.  TYPE (i.e., EMI, Laser, Kinetic) EMI 

b.  DATE 2025-01-05 

c.  START TIME 10:07:31.11476802 GPS 

d.  STOP TIME 10:07:46.48721785 GPS 

e.  BEAM FORMAT (i.e. pulsed or continuous for laser) N/A 

f.  PULSE DURATION/TIME BETWEEN PULSES (for laser) N/A 

g.  LASER COLOR (e.g. green, white for laser) N/A 

h.  WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY 9.5 GHz to 9.8 GHz 

SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS 

a.  SATELLITE CONSTELLATION: Polaris 

b.  SATELLITE AFFECTED: Polaris 99 

c.  SATELLITE LOCATION AT ANOMALY START (GPS time, ECEF position and
    velocity) 
    "time": "2025-01-05T10:07:30.399842000", 
        "position": [ 3709827.938272481, 1288361.3591651241,
    5750563.833813384], 
        "velocity": [ 6423.807568044799, 17.29518894077,
    -4132.467078238404] 

d.  SATELLITE LOCATION AT ANOMALY END (GPS time, ECEF position and
    velocity) 
        "time": "2025-01-05T10:07:45.599837000", 
        "position": [3806963.475189205, 1288342.0567631586,
    5686969.5297837695], 
        "velocity": [6356.893226540573, -19.81006932685573,
    -4235.022542210345] 

e.  SENSOR WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY OPERATING RANGE 9.5 GHz to 9.8 GHz 

f.  SENSOR POINTING ANGLE(S) DURING ANOMALY (GPS time, quaternion) 
       "time": "2025-01-05T10:07:37.999846000", 
        "attitude": [-0.29905150969579747, -0.9130912460025813,
    0.07774590286074551, 0.26606041655950646]

g.  SENSOR FIELD OF VIEW 0.7 deg 

h.  SENSOR EFFECT (e.g. temporary impairment of sensor, permanent
    damage) None 

i.  POST EVENT STATUS OF SATELLITE Operational 

j.  EVENT ASSOCIATION (linked to OPSCAP and/or SYSCAP change) N/A 

STIX 2.1 Proof of Concept

- TITLE 🡪 Report

  - Description: Full report (Summary, Anomaly Details, Satellite/Sensor
    Details)

- SATELLITE AFFECTED 🡪 Identity

- SATELLITE CONSTELLATION 🡪 Infrastructure

- ANOMALY DETAILS 🡪 Intrusion Set

  - Description: TYPE, DATE, BEAM FORMAT, PULSE DURATION,
    WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY

- SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS 🡪 Incident

  - Description: Satellite Affected, Location at Anomaly Start/End,
    Sensor Wavelength/Frequency Operating Range,

- Attack Pattern: Contains Sparta TTPs

- SATELLITE LOCATION 🡪 Location

[A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.]

[A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.]

Use Case #2: RFI Guatemala

TITLE: RF Anomaly Incident Report ID00002

SUMMARY:  

Polaris 98 (NORAD ID 123456) experienced RFI while collecting over
Central America. Diagnostics lead us to believe this event was not
internally generated by Cave of the Winds. Graphics are below and
attached.

Cave of the Winds CollectID / Product Reference # is XXXXXXXX 

Image IDs are: N/A 

 

ANOMALY DETAILS:

a.  TYPE (i.e., EMI, Laser, Kinetic) EMI 

b.  DATE 2024-1-03 

c.  START TIME 06:39:52.03561945 GPS 

d.  STOP TIME 06:40:00.80927561 GPS 

e.  BEAM FORMAT (i.e. pulsed or continuous for laser) N/A 

f.  PULSE DURATION/TIME BETWEEN PULSES (for laser) N/A 

g.  LASER COLOR (e.g. green, white for laser) N/A 

h.  WAVEL ENGTH/FREQUENCY 9.3 GHz to 9.9 GHz 

 

SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS:

a.  SATELLITE CONSTELLATION Polaris 

b.   SATELLITE AFFECTED Polaris 98 

c.  Obfuscated NORAD ID: 123456 

d.  SATELLITE LOCATION AT ANOMALY START 
      "time": "2025-01-03T06:39:22.000002727",  

  "position": [ 35721.651126396486, -6612933.6401067935,
  2318864.225620057 ],  

"velocity": [ 4337.369714770672, -1908.1717687760465, -5483.343840638025
] } 

d.  SATELLITE LOCATION AT ANOMALY END 
        "time": "2025-01-03T06:40:30.400010500",  

"position": [ 331438.1855352285, -6726973.6048504, 1937843.002420463
],  

"velocity": [ 4306.238510747472, -1424.781865541579, -5652.596710630712
] } 

e.  SENSOR WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY OPERATING RANGE  9.3 GHz to 9.9 GHz 

f.  SENSOR POINTING ANGLE(S) DURING ANOMALY 
                    { "time": "2025-01-03T06:39:56.200006614",  

"attitude": [ 0.39333012840960485, 0.8133741436690773,
-0.28264880646878093, -0.3222166416446697 ] } 

g.  SENSOR FIELD OF VIEW 0.7 deg 

h.  SENSOR EFFECT (e.g. temporary impairment of sensor, permanent
    damage) None 

i.  POST EVENT STATUS OF SATELLITE Operational 

j.  EVENT ASSOCIATION (linked to OPSCAP and/or SYSCAP change) N/A 

STIX 2.1 Proof of Concept

- TITLE 🡪 Report

  - Description: Full report (Summary, Anomaly Details, Satellite/Sensor
    Details)

- SATELLITE AFFECTED 🡪 Identity

- SATELLITE CONSTELLATION 🡪 Infrastructure

- ANOMALY DETAILS 🡪 Intrusion Set

  - Description: TYPE, DATE, BEAM FORMAT, PULSE DURATION,
    WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY

- SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS 🡪 Incident

  - Description: Satellite Affected, Location at Anomaly Start/End,
    Sensor Wavelength/Frequency Operating Range,

- Attack Pattern: Contains Sparta TTPs

- SATELLITE LOCATION 🡪 Location

[A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.]

[A diagram of a network AI-generated content may be incorrect.]

Use Case 3: RFI in GEO

TITLE: RFI in GEO (MESA Verde RF EMI) 

Summary: Between 2 Mar ’25 and 8 Mar ’25, Hydra satellites #1 – 3
experienced RF EMI related anomalies concurrent with downlink jamming
resulting in a degradation while interfacing with the following
latitudes and longitudinal areas. Elements below were validated as being
impactful upon downlinks geolocated to and around these regions and not
related to internal functions of the Mesa Verde satellite owner/operator
systems or payloads. Graphics and visuals not provided.  

ANOMALY DETAILS:

a.  Regions of Interference Correlation w/Fair Accuracy to Downlinks:
    Lat / Long 

- NORAD ID: 234567, Hydra 1 (Identity) 

- RF EMI Incident 1: 33.398438 46.286224 

- RF EMI Incident 2: 28.432617 51.75424 

- RF EMI Incident 3: 23.15918 51.563412 

- RF EMI Incident 4: 17.138672 47.901614 

- NORAD ID: 345678, Hydra 2 (Identity) 

- RF EMI Incident 5: 22.280273 49.410973 

- RF EMI Incident 6: 17.358398 49.15297 

- RF EMI Incident 7: 20.566406 46.073231 

- RF EMI Incident 8: 23.730469 43.739352 

- NORAD ID: 456789, Hydra 3 (Identity) 

- RF EMI Incident 9: 30.629883 46.377254 

- RF EMI Incident 10: 33.398438 46.286224 

- RF EMI Incident 11: 22.412109 47.960502 

SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS:

a)  Constellation: Hydra (Part of Identity) 

b)  Attack Patterns Denoted:  

c)  Downlink Jamming: EX-0016 (Attack Pattern) 

d)  Signal Degradation: IMP-0004 (Attack Pattern) 

e)  Satellites Affected: 3x Obfuscated NORAD IDs (234567, 345678 &
    456789, Part of Identity) 

f)  TYPE (i.e., EMI, Laser, Kinetic) EMI (Jamming) 

g)  Initial Start Date: 2024-03-02 

h)  START TIME/Date: 00:00:00 UTC/2 March 2025 

i)  STOP TIME/Date: 23:59:59 UTC/8 March 2025 

j)  BEAM FORMAT (i.e. pulsed or continuous for laser) N/A 

k)  PULSE DURATION/TIME BETWEEN PULSES (for laser) N/A 

l)  LASER COLOR (e.g. green, white for laser) N/A 

m)  WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY: not disclosed 

STIX 2.1 Proof of Concept

- TITLE 🡪 Report

  - Description: Full report (Summary, Anomaly Details, Satellite/Sensor
    Details)

  - Report bundle includes all 11 incidents reported

- SATELLITE AFFECTED 🡪 3x Identity objects

  - Includes: Constellation designation, Satellites Affected

- SATELLITE CONSTELLATION 🡪 Infrastructure

- ANOMALY DETAILS 🡪 11x Incident objects

- SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS 🡪 11x Incident objects

  - Description: TYPE, DATE, BEAM FORMAT, PULSE DURATION,
    WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY, Regions of interference correlation

  - Description: Satellite Affected, Location at Anomaly Start/End,
    Sensor Wavelength/Frequency Operating Range,

- TYPE: Attack Pattern: Contains Sparta TTPs

- SATELLITE LOCATION 🡪 4x Location objects

[A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.]

[A diagram of a network AI-generated content may be incorrect.]

Use Case #4: 

The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) has been
working with government and industry partners to increase resilience to
GPS disruptions that could impact critical infrastructure operations.
The national Position, Navigation and Timing (PNT) ecosystem heavily
relies on GPS as the primary source of position navigation and timing.
The event below illustrates how PNT users should understand the impacts
to operations should GPS be unavailable.

In January 2022, a GPS interference event occurred over a thirty-three
(33) hour period in the vicinity of Denver International Airport due to
a transmitter errantly broadcasting in the GPS frequency. Interference
was first detected by aircraft pilots and communicated to Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) Air Traffic Control Facilities. Due to the
significant number of reports, the FAA issued a Notice to Air Missions
warning of the GPS interference.

Operators of systems from a wide range of critical infrastructure that
rely on the GPS signal for uninterrupted PNT services also detected
interference with (1) surface and rail traffic and (2) communications
towers and services using GPS timing signals. Ground-based industry
users of GPS/PNT services and others reported GPS interference to the
United States Coast Guard Navigation Center (NAVCEN) and the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) Public Safety and Homeland Security
Bureau.

Departments and agencies responsible for monitoring and coordinating
response to GPS interference events implemented the established national
coordination process. The FCC Enforcement Bureau deployed, located, and
coordinated shut down of the emitter. No accidents or injuries occurred
because of the GPS interference incident. However, several critical
infrastructure sectors were degraded. Many systems that detected the
event had resilient alternate timing built in for backup or fail-over
timing and experienced minor or no degradation of services.

An investigation of the interference positively identified an emitter
unintentionally transmitting a signal within the GPS L1 frequency. Some
receivers within a line of sight of the transmitter experienced GPS
signal disruption. The affected area on the ground covered approximately
50 nautical mile radius on the ground and spanned approximately 230
nautical miles in distance from the interfering transmitter at flight
levels up to approximately 36,000 feet.

Improving interference detection and mitigation (IDM) of GPS signal
interference is a priority of CISA. CISA is leading a federal government
interagency after-action review of the event to (1) encourage
owner/operator resilience by sharing best practices, (2) improve
capabilities, processes, and procedures on reporting GPS interference
and (3) encourage shared situational awareness with the goal of
enhancing government and industry information sharing to further improve
expediting IDM of interfering emissions, affecting GPS signals over the
United States and its territories.

CISA Insights GPS Interference Event

STIX 2.1 Proof of Concept

- TITLE 🡪 Report

  - Description: Full report (Summary, Anomaly Details)

- ANOMALY DETAILS 🡪 Incident

  - Details include: START/STOP TIME, ANOMALY TYPE

- TYPE: Attack Pattern: Contains Sparta TTPs

[A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.]

[A diagram of a network AI-generated content may be incorrect.]

Use Case #5:

TITLE: SMOS Unknown Anomaly_8 Mar 2025

SUMMARY:  

The Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) satellite (NORAD ID #36036)
during the week of 3 March to 10 March 2025, exhibited an anomaly that
generated an unlocked condition on 2025-03-08 starting on 19:28:25 UTC
(Julian day 067) over the Southern Atlantic Ocean, midway between Brazil
and Saint Helena.

 ANOMALY DETAILS:

b.  TYPE (i.e., EMI, Laser, Kinetic) EMI

c.  DATE 2025-03-08

d.  START TIME 19:28:25 UTC

e.  STOP TIME 20:00:00 UTC

f.  BEAM FORMAT (i.e. pulsed or continuous for laser) N/A 

g.  PULSE DURATION/TIME BETWEEN PULSES (for laser) N/A 

h.  LASER COLOR (e.g. green, white for laser) N/A 

i.  WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY L-Band (1.4 GHz)

SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS 

b.  SATELLITE CONSTELLATION: N/A

c.  SATELLITE AFFECTED: SMOS NORAD ID 36036

d.  SATELLITE LOCATION AT ANOMALY START (GPS time, ECEF position and
    velocity) 
    N/A
        "position": N/A
        "velocity": N/A

e.  SATELLITE LOCATION AT ANOMALY END (GPS time, ECEF position and
    velocity) 
        "time": N/A
        "position": N/A 
        "velocity": N/A

f.  SENSOR WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY OPERATING RANGE 1.4 GHz

g.  SENSOR POINTING ANGLE(S) DURING ANOMALY (GPS time, quaternion) 
       "time": N/A
        "attitude": ~ 766 km

h.  SENSOR FIELD OF VIEW N/A

i.  SENSOR EFFECT (e.g. temporary impairment of sensor, permanent
    damage) Unlocked, out of parameter, not functional

j.  POST EVENT STATUS OF SATELLITE Operational 

k.  EVENT ASSOCIATION (linked to OPSCAP and/or SYSCAP change) N/A 

STIX 2.1 Proof of Concept

- TITLE 🡪 Report

  - Description: Full report (Summary, Anomaly Details, Satellite/Sensor
    Details)

    - URL: SMOS FOS Report for Week 10, Year 2025

    - Title: ESAC Ops Report for Week 10

- 8 March 2025 Anomaly 🡪 Incident

- SATELLITE AFFECTED 🡪 Identity

  - SMOS Satellite NORAD ID 36036

- SPARTA TTPs 🡪 Attack Pattern

  - IMP-0002 Disruption

  - IMP-0003 Denial

- SATELLITE LOCATION AT TIME OF ANOMALY 🡪 Location

  - Brazil: - 17.75 Lat, 335.36 Long

[]

[]

Consolidated Mapping of Identified Elements in Reporting Examples

This chart shows an overall representation of data elements that were
extruded from each use case and does not factor in how they were mapped
in the current STIX 2.1 format. Items marked as Y show elements that
were identified in the corresponding use cases. Items marked as N show
which were not present in the source report.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  EEIs                        Use Case Use Case Use Case Use Case Use Case
                                 #1       #2       #3       #4       #5
  --------------------------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
  NORAD ID                       Y        Y        N        N        Y

  UTC Event Start                Y        Y        Y        Y        Y

  UTC Event Stop                 Y        Y        Y        Y        Y

  TLE Before Event               N        N        N        N        N

  TLE After Event                N        N        N        N        N

  GPS Time                       Y        Y        Y        N        N

  ECEF Position and Velocity     Y        Y        N        N        N

  Orbital Altitude at Point      N        N        N        N        N
  of Anomaly                                                      

  Terrestrial Lat and Long       Y        Y        Y        N        N
  Correlation                                                     

  Orbit (LEO, SSO, HEO, MEO,     N        N        N        N        Y
  GEO)                                                            

  Exhibited Anomaly Capture      Y        Y        Y        Y        Y
  (Narrative)                                                     

  Exhibited Anomaly Payload      Y        Y        Y        N        N
  Impact                                                          

  Uplink or Downlink Impacted    N        N        Y        N        N

  Frequency Band Impacted        Y        Y        N        N        N

  Additional Anomalies           N        N        Y        N        N
  Captured                                                        

  Anomaly Type Capture           Y        Y        Y        Y        Y
  (Interference, Jamming,                                         
  Spoofing, Space WX)                                             

  Aerospace SPARTA TTPs (as      N        N        N        N        N
  assigned by Owner/Operator)                                     

  Aerospace SPARTA TTPs (as      Y        Y        Y        Y        Y
  assigned by Space ISAC WC)                                      

  MITRE ATT&CK TTPs              N        N        N        N        N

  MITRE D3FEND TTPs              N        N        N        N        N

  MITRE FIGHT TTPs               N        N        N        N        N

  Associated Ground Station      N        N        N        N        N
  at Point of Impact or                                           
  Anomaly                                                         

  Polarization                   N        N        N        N        N

  Sensor Field of View           Y        Y        N        N        N

  Sensor Point Angle During      Y        Y        N        N        N
  Anomaly                                                         

  Post Event Status of           Y        Y        N        N        Y
  Satellite (Non-Operational                                      
  vs Operational)                                                 

  Total Number of                14       14       10       5     
  Correlations                                                    
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
