RF EMI to STIX Notional Mapping

Updated:

- 06/26/2025 - with additional use cases to begin mapping towards & building in CTIX. /HF

- 07/08/2025 - with SMOS anomaly cross reference (Use Case #5) and proof of concept cross walk after generating the relationship diagram in CTIX. //HF

## Introduction:

The purpose of this document is to annotate mapping RF EMI events to the STIX 2.1 framework through a series of publicly available and member
submitted reports. The desired information elements are listed below. Each example report has had all available items extracted and mapped to the
existing STIX 2.1 framework. Highlighted items did not intuitively map to existing STIX Domain Objects (SDOs) and may constitute the creation of
unique SDOs and/or attributes. The majority of these data points were aggregated into the "description" attribute.

All data received from member organizations has been obfuscated in accordance with Space ISAC Operating Rules.

## Consolidated Reporting Components: 

This chart maps the assumed reporting elements for RF EMI events and assesses the ability to map them to current STIX 2.1 representations. This
exercise operates under the assumption that all elements can be mapped, whether as an SDO or attribute. Many of these items were included in the
"description" attribute of various SDOs as a catch all. Items highlighted in red constitute data elements that did not have a strong, straightforward
mapping.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Reporting Element**                                    **Data**        **STIX 2.1 Mapping**                     **Revised Terminology**
  -------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------
  Aerospace SPARTA TTP                                     SDO             Attack Pattern                           

  Anomaly Details                                          SDO             Intrusion Set                            Incident

  Anomaly Type Capture                                     Attribute       Intrusion Set \> Description             Incident \> Description

  Any additional anomalies captured                        Attribute       Intrusion Set \> Description             

  Associated Ground Station at Point of Impact or AnomalyÂ  SDO             Infrastructure                           

  Exhibited Anomaly Capture (Narrative)Â                    Attribute       Intrusion Set \> Description             Incident \> Description

  Exhibited Anomaly Payload ImpactÂ                         Attribute       Incident \> Description                  Incident \> Impact_refs

  Frequency Band Impacted                                  Attribute       Incident \> Description                  

  GPS time, ECEF position and velocityÂ                     Attribute       Incident \> Description                  

  MITRE ATT&CKÂ TTP                                         SDO             Attack Pattern                           

  MITRE D3FENDÂ                                             SDO             Course of Action                         

  MITRE FIGHT TTP                                          SDO             Attack Pattern                           

  NORAD IDÂ                                                 SDO             Identity                                 

  Orbit (LEO, SSO, HEO, MEO, GEO)Â                          Attribute       Identity \> Description                  Location \> Description

  Orbital Altitude at Point of Anomaly CaptureÂ             Attribute       Incident \> Description                  Incident \> event_refs

  PolarizationÂ                                             Attribute       Incident \> Description                  

  Post Event Status of SatelliteÂ                           Attribute       Incident \> Description                  

  Sensor Field of ViewÂ                                     Attribute       Incident \> Description                  

  Sensor Pointing Angle(s) During AnomalyÂ                  Attribute       Incident \> Description                  

  Terrestrial Lat/Long (SSO and LEO)Â                       SDO             Location                                 

  TLE Before & TLE AfterÂ                                   Attribute       Incident \> Description                  

  Uplink or Downlink ImpactedÂ                              SDO             Infrastructure                           

  UTC Correlated Event Start/Stop (Provides Duration)Â      Attribute       Intrusion Set \> First Seen/Last Seen    Event . start_time, end_time
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Notional Reporting Format

- Title:

- Summary:

- Anomaly Details:

  - Type

  - Date

  - Start Time

  - Stop Time

  - Beam Format

  - Pulse Duration/Time Between Pulses

  - Laser Color

  - Wavelength Frequency

- Satellite/Sensor Details

  - Satellite Constellation

  - Satellite(s) Affected

  - Satellite Location at Anomaly Start

  - Satellite Location at Anomaly End

  - Sensor Wavelength/Frequency Operating Range

  - Sensor Pointing Angle(s) During Anomaly

  - Sensor Field of View

  - Sensor Effect

  - Post Event Status of Satellite

  - Event Association

## Use Case #1

**TITLE:** RF Anomaly incident Report ID:00001

**SUMMARY:**â€¯Â 

[Polaris 99 (NORAD ID 12345)]{.underline} experienced [RFI]{.underline} while collecting over Belarus. Diagnostics lead us to believe this event was
not internally generated by [Cave of the Winds]{.underline}. Graphics are below and attached.â€¯Â 

NOTE 1: Resources are being generated and all files will be pushed to the relevant S3 bucket.Â 

NOTE 2: This collection was not for a USG tasking.Â 

Cave of the Winds CollectID / Product Reference #â€¯isâ€¯XXXXXXXXÂ 

Image IDs are: N/AÂ 

â€¯Â 

**ANOMALY DETAILS**:

a.  *TYPE (i.e., EMI, Laser, Kinetic)*â€¯EMIÂ 

<!-- -->

b.  *DATE*â€¯2025-01-05Â 

<!-- -->

c.  *START TIME*â€¯10:07:31.11476802 GPSÂ 

<!-- -->

d.  *STOP TIME*â€¯10:07:46.48721785 GPSÂ 

<!-- -->

e.  *BEAM FORMAT (i.e. pulsed or continuous for laser)*â€¯N/AÂ 

<!-- -->

f.  *PULSE DURATION/TIME BETWEEN PULSES (for laser)*â€¯N/AÂ 

<!-- -->

g.  *LASER COLOR (e.g. green, white for laser)*â€¯N/AÂ 

<!-- -->

h.  *WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY*â€¯9.5 GHz to 9.8 GHzÂ 

**SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS**Â 

a.  *SATELLITE CONSTELLATION*: **[Polaris]{.underline}**Â 

<!-- -->

b.  *SATELLITE AFFECTED*: **[Polaris 99]{.underline}**Â 

<!-- -->

c.  *SATELLITE LOCATION AT ANOMALY START*â€¯(GPS time, ECEF position and velocity)Â \
    \"time\": \"2025-01-05T10:07:30.399842000\",Â \
    â€¯â€¯â€¯ \"position\": \[Â 3709827.938272481, 1288361.3591651241, 5750563.833813384\],Â \
    â€¯â€¯â€¯ \"velocity\": \[Â 6423.807568044799, 17.29518894077, -4132.467078238404\]Â 

<!-- -->

d.  *SATELLITE LOCATION AT ANOMALY END*â€¯(GPS time, ECEF position and velocity)Â \
    â€¯â€¯â€¯ \"time\": \"2025-01-05T10:07:45.599837000\",Â \
    â€¯â€¯â€¯ \"position\": \[3806963.475189205, 1288342.0567631586, 5686969.5297837695\],Â \
    â€¯â€¯â€¯ \"velocity\": \[6356.893226540573, -19.81006932685573, -4235.022542210345\]Â 

<!-- -->

e.  *SENSOR WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY OPERATING RANGE*â€¯9.5 GHz to 9.8 GHzÂ 

<!-- -->

f.  *SENSOR POINTING ANGLE(S) DURING ANOMALY*â€¯(GPS time, quaternion)Â \
    â€¯â€¯ \"time\": \"2025-01-05T10:07:37.999846000\",Â \
    â€¯â€¯â€¯ \"attitude\": \[-0.29905150969579747, -0.9130912460025813, 0.07774590286074551, 0.26606041655950646\]

<!-- -->

g.  *SENSOR FIELD OF VIEW*â€¯0.7 degÂ 

<!-- -->

h.  *SENSOR EFFECT (e.g. temporary impairment of sensor, permanent damage)*â€¯NoneÂ 

<!-- -->

i.  *POST EVENT STATUS OF SATELLITE*â€¯OperationalÂ 

<!-- -->

j.  *EVENT ASSOCIATION (linked to OPSCAP and/or SYSCAP change)*â€¯N/AÂ 

## STIX 2.1 Proof of Concept

- **TITLE** ðŸ¡ª Report

  - Description: Full report (Summary, Anomaly Details, Satellite/Sensor Details)

- *SATELLITE AFFECTED* **ðŸ¡ª** Identity

- *SATELLITE CONSTELLATION* **ðŸ¡ª** Infrastructure

- **ANOMALY DETAILS** ðŸ¡ª Intrusion Set

  - Description: *TYPE, DATE, BEAM FORMAT, PULSE DURATION, WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY*

- **SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS** ðŸ¡ª Incident

  - Description: Satellite Affected, Location at Anomaly Start/End, Sensor Wavelength/Frequency Operating Range,

- Attack Pattern: Contains Sparta TTPs

- *SATELLITE LOCATION* ðŸ¡ª Location

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](media/image1.png){width="5.278894356955381in" height="1.8258617672790902in"}

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](media/image2.png){width="6.5in" height="3.061768372703412in"}

## Use Case #2: RFI Guatemala

**TITLE:** RF Anomaly Incident Report ID00002

**SUMMARY:â€¯Â **

[Polaris 98 (NORAD ID 123456)]{.underline} experienced [RFI]{.underline} while collecting over Central America. Diagnostics lead us to believe this
event was not internally generated by [Cave of the Winds]{.underline}. Graphics are below and attached.

[Cave of the Winds]{.underline} CollectID / Product Reference #â€¯is [XXXXXXXX]{.underline}Â 

Image IDs are: [N/A]{.underline}Â 

â€¯

**ANOMALY DETAILS:**

a.  TYPE (i.e., EMI, Laser, Kinetic)â€¯EMIÂ 

<!-- -->

b.  DATEâ€¯2024-1-03Â 

<!-- -->

c.  START TIMEâ€¯06:39:52.03561945 GPSÂ 

<!-- -->

d.  STOP TIMEâ€¯06:40:00.80927561 GPSÂ 

<!-- -->

e.  BEAM FORMAT (i.e. pulsed or continuous for laser)â€¯N/AÂ 

<!-- -->

f.  PULSE DURATION/TIME BETWEEN PULSES (for laser)â€¯N/AÂ 

<!-- -->

g.  LASER COLOR (e.g. green, white for laser)â€¯N/AÂ 

<!-- -->

h.  WAVEL ENGTH/FREQUENCYâ€¯9.3 GHz to 9.9 GHzÂ 

â€¯

**SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS:**

a.  SATELLITE CONSTELLATIONâ€¯[Polaris]{.underline}Â 

<!-- -->

b.  â€¯SATELLITE AFFECTEDâ€¯[Polaris 98]{.underline}Â 

<!-- -->

c.  Obfuscated NORAD ID: 123456Â 

<!-- -->

d.  SATELLITE LOCATION AT ANOMALY STARTÂ \
    â€¯ \"time\": \"2025-01-03T06:39:22.000002727\",â€¯Â 

> \"position\": \[ 35721.651126396486, -6612933.6401067935, 2318864.225620057 \],â€¯Â 

\"velocity\": \[ 4337.369714770672, -1908.1717687760465, -5483.343840638025 \] }Â 

d.  SATELLITEâ€¯LOCATION AT ANOMALY ENDÂ \
    â€¯ â€¯ \"time\": \"2025-01-03T06:40:30.400010500\",â€¯Â 

\"position\": \[ 331438.1855352285, -6726973.6048504, 1937843.002420463 \],â€¯Â 

\"velocity\": \[ 4306.238510747472, -1424.781865541579, -5652.596710630712 \] }Â 

e.  SENSOR WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY OPERATING RANGEâ€¯â€¯9.3 GHz to 9.9 GHzÂ 

<!-- -->

f.  SENSOR POINTING ANGLE(S) DURING ANOMALYÂ \
    â€¯ â€¯ â€¯ â€¯ â€¯ â€¯ â€¯â€¯â€¯â€¯{ \"time\": \"2025-01-03T06:39:56.200006614\",â€¯Â 

\"attitude\": \[ 0.39333012840960485, 0.8133741436690773, -0.28264880646878093, -0.3222166416446697 \] }Â 

g.  SENSOR FIELD OF VIEWâ€¯0.7 degÂ 

<!-- -->

h.  SENSOR EFFECT (e.g. temporary impairment of sensor, permanent damage)â€¯NoneÂ 

<!-- -->

i.  POST EVENT STATUS OF SATELLITEâ€¯OperationalÂ 

<!-- -->

j.  EVENT ASSOCIATION (linked to OPSCAP and/or SYSCAP change)Â N/AÂ 

## STIX 2.1 Proof of Concept

- **TITLE** ðŸ¡ª Report

  - Description: Full report (Summary, Anomaly Details, Satellite/Sensor Details)

- *SATELLITE AFFECTED* **ðŸ¡ª** Identity

- *SATELLITE CONSTELLATION* **ðŸ¡ª** Infrastructure

- **ANOMALY DETAILS** ðŸ¡ª Intrusion Set

  - Description: *TYPE, DATE, BEAM FORMAT, PULSE DURATION, WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY*

- **SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS** ðŸ¡ª Incident

  - Description: Satellite Affected, Location at Anomaly Start/End, Sensor Wavelength/Frequency Operating Range,

- Attack Pattern: Contains Sparta TTPs

- *SATELLITE LOCATION* ðŸ¡ª Location

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](media/image3.png){width="6.022725284339457in" height="2.205115923009624in"}

![A diagram of a network AI-generated content may be incorrect.](media/image4.jpeg){width="6.406073928258968in" height="2.9843667979002624in"}

## Use Case 3: RFI in GEO

**TITLE:** RFI in GEO **[(MESA Verde RF EMI)]{.underline}**Â 

Summary: Between **[2 Mar '25 and 8 Mar '25]{.underline}**, Hydra satellites #1 -- 3 experienced **[RF EMI related anomalies concurrent with downlink
jamming resulting in a degradation]{.underline}** while interfacing with the following latitudes and longitudinal areas. Elements below were validated
as being impactful upon downlinks geolocated to and around these regions and not related to internal functions of the **[Mesa Verde]{.underline}**
satellite owner/operator systems or payloads. Graphics and visuals not provided.Â Â 

**ANOMALY DETAILS:**

a.  Regions of Interference Correlation w/Fair Accuracy to Downlinks: Lat / LongÂ 

- NORAD ID: 234567, Hydra 1 **[(Identity)]{.underline}**Â 

<!-- -->

- RF EMI **[Incident 1]{.underline}**: 33.398438 46.286224Â 

<!-- -->

- RF EMI **[Incident 2]{.underline}**: 28.432617 51.75424Â 

<!-- -->

- RF EMI **[Incident 3]{.underline}**: 23.15918 51.563412Â 

<!-- -->

- RF EMI **[Incident 4]{.underline}**: 17.138672 47.901614Â 

<!-- -->

- NORAD ID: 345678, Hydra 2 **[(Identity)]{.underline}**Â 

<!-- -->

- RF EMI **[Incident 5]{.underline}**: 22.280273 49.410973Â 

<!-- -->

- RF EMI **[Incident 6]{.underline}**: 17.358398 49.15297Â 

<!-- -->

- RF EMI **[Incident 7]{.underline}**: 20.566406 46.073231Â 

<!-- -->

- RF EMI **[Incident 8]{.underline}**: 23.730469 43.739352Â 

<!-- -->

- NORAD ID: 456789, Hydra 3 **[(Identity)]{.underline}**Â 

<!-- -->

- RF EMI **[Incident 9]{.underline}**: 30.629883 46.377254Â 

<!-- -->

- RF EMI **[Incident 10]{.underline}**: 33.398438 46.286224Â 

<!-- -->

- RF EMI **[Incident 11]{.underline}**: 22.412109 47.960502Â 

**SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS:**

a)  Constellation: Hydra **[(Part of Identity)]{.underline}**Â 

b)  Attack Patterns Denoted:Â Â 

c)  Downlink Jamming: EX-0016 **[(Attack Pattern)]{.underline}**Â 

d)  Signal Degradation: IMP-0004 **[(Attack Pattern)]{.underline}**Â 

e)  Satellites Affected: 3x Obfuscated NORAD IDs (**[234567, 345678 & 456789, Part of Identity]{.underline}**)Â 

f)  TYPE (i.e., EMI, Laser, Kinetic)â€¯EMI **[(Jamming)]{.underline}**Â 

g)  Initial Start Date: 2024-03-02Â 

h)  START TIME/Date:â€¯00:00:00 UTC/2 March 2025Â 

i)  STOP TIME/Date: 23:59:59 UTC/8 March 2025Â 

j)  BEAM FORMAT (i.e. pulsed or continuous for laser)â€¯N/AÂ 

k)  PULSE DURATION/TIME BETWEEN PULSES (for laser)â€¯N/AÂ 

l)  LASER COLOR (e.g. green, white for laser)â€¯N/AÂ 

m)  WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY: not disclosedÂ 

## STIX 2.1 Proof of Concept

- **TITLE** ðŸ¡ª Report

  - Description: Full report (Summary, Anomaly Details, Satellite/Sensor Details)

  - Report bundle includes all 11 incidents reported

- *SATELLITE AFFECTED* **ðŸ¡ª** 3x Identity objects

  - Includes: *Constellation designation, Satellites Affected*

- *SATELLITE CONSTELLATION* **ðŸ¡ª** Infrastructure

- **ANOMALY DETAILS** ðŸ¡ª 11x Incident objects

- **SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS** ðŸ¡ª 11x Incident objects

  - Description: *TYPE, DATE, BEAM FORMAT, PULSE DURATION, WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY, Regions of interference correlation*

  - Description: Satellite Affected, Location at Anomaly Start/End, Sensor Wavelength/Frequency Operating Range,

- *TYPE:* Attack Pattern: Contains Sparta TTPs

- *SATELLITE LOCATION* ðŸ¡ª 4x Location objects

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](media/image5.png){width="5.63238188976378in" height="1.6253280839895012in"}

![A diagram of a network AI-generated content may be incorrect.](media/image6.png){width="6.346748687664042in" height="3.1562018810148733in"}

## Use Case #4: 

The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) has been working with government and industry partners to increase resilience to GPS
disruptions that could impact critical infrastructure operations. The national Position, Navigation and Timing (PNT) ecosystem heavily relies on GPS
as the primary source of position navigation and timing. The event below illustrates how PNT users should understand the impacts to operations should
GPS be unavailable.

In January 2022, a GPS interference event occurred over a thirty-three (33) hour period in the vicinity of Denver International Airport due to a
transmitter errantly broadcasting in the GPS frequency. Interference was first detected by aircraft pilots and communicated to Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) Air Traffic Control Facilities. Due to the significant number of reports, the FAA issued a Notice to Air Missions warning of the
GPS interference.

Operators of systems from a wide range of critical infrastructure that rely on the GPS signal for uninterrupted PNT services also detected
interference with (1) surface and rail traffic and (2) communications towers and services using GPS timing signals. Ground-based industry users of
GPS/PNT services and others reported GPS interference to the United States Coast Guard Navigation Center (NAVCEN) and the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau.

Departments and agencies responsible for monitoring and coordinating response to GPS interference events implemented the established national
coordination process. The FCC Enforcement Bureau deployed, located, and coordinated shut down of the emitter. No accidents or injuries occurred
because of the GPS interference incident. However, several critical infrastructure sectors were degraded. Many systems that detected the event had
resilient alternate timing built in for backup or fail-over timing and experienced minor or no degradation of services.

An investigation of the interference positively identified an emitter unintentionally transmitting a signal within the GPS L1 frequency. Some
receivers within a line of sight of the transmitter experienced GPS signal disruption. The affected area on the ground covered approximately 50
nautical mile radius on the ground and spanned approximately 230 nautical miles in distance from the interfering transmitter at flight levels up to
approximately 36,000 feet.

Improving interference detection and mitigation (IDM) of GPS signal interference is a priority of CISA. CISA is leading a federal government
interagency after-action review of the event to (1) encourage owner/operator resilience by sharing best practices, (2) improve capabilities,
processes, and procedures on reporting GPS interference and (3) encourage shared situational awareness with the goal of enhancing government and
industry information sharing to further improve expediting IDM of interfering emissions, affecting GPS signals over the United States and its
territories.

[CISA Insights GPS Interference Event](https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/CISA-Insights_GPS-Interference_508.pdf)

## STIX 2.1 Proof of Concept

- **TITLE** ðŸ¡ª Report

  - Description: Full report (Summary, Anomaly Details)

- **ANOMALY DETAILS** ðŸ¡ª Incident

  - Details include: *START/STOP TIME, ANOMALY TYPE*

- *TYPE:* Attack Pattern: Contains Sparta TTPs

![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](media/image7.png){width="6.5in" height="1.3930555555555555in"}

![A diagram of a network AI-generated content may be incorrect.](media/image8.png){width="6.5in" height="4.5475710848643915in"}

## Use Case #5:

**TITLE:** SMOS Unknown Anomaly_8 Mar 2025

**SUMMARY:**Â Â 

The Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) satellite (NORAD ID #36036) during the week of 3 March to 10 March 2025, exhibited an anomaly that
generated an unlocked condition on 2025-03-08 starting on 19:28:25 UTC (Julian day 067) over the Southern Atlantic Ocean, midway between Brazil and
Saint Helena.

Â **ANOMALY DETAILS**:

b.  *TYPE (i.e., EMI, Laser, Kinetic)*Â EMI

<!-- -->

c.  *DATE*Â 2025-03-08

<!-- -->

d.  *START TIME*Â 19:28:25 UTC

<!-- -->

e.  *STOP TIME*Â 20:00:00 UTC

f.  *BEAM FORMAT (i.e. pulsed or continuous for laser)*Â N/AÂ 

<!-- -->

g.  *PULSE DURATION/TIME BETWEEN PULSES (for laser)*Â N/AÂ 

<!-- -->

h.  *LASER COLOR (e.g. green, white for laser)*Â N/AÂ 

<!-- -->

i.  *WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY*Â **[L-Band (1.4 GHz)]{.underline}**

**SATELLITE/SENSOR DETAILS**Â 

b.  *SATELLITE CONSTELLATION*: **[N/A]{.underline}**

<!-- -->

c.  *SATELLITE AFFECTED*: **[SMOS NORAD ID 36036]{.underline}**

<!-- -->

d.  *SATELLITE LOCATION AT ANOMALY START*Â (GPS time, ECEF position and velocity)Â \
    **[N/A]{.underline}**\
    Â Â Â  \"position\": **[N/A]{.underline}**\
    Â Â Â  \"velocity\": **[N/A]{.underline}**

<!-- -->

e.  *SATELLITE LOCATION AT ANOMALY END*Â (GPS time, ECEF position and velocity)Â \
    Â Â Â  \"time\": **[N/A]{.underline}**\
    Â Â Â  \"position\": **[N/A]{.underline}**Â \
    Â Â Â  \"velocity\": **[N/A]{.underline}**

<!-- -->

f.  *SENSOR WAVELENGTH/FREQUENCY OPERATING RANGE*Â **[1.4 GHz]{.underline}**

<!-- -->

g.  *SENSOR POINTING ANGLE(S) DURING ANOMALY*Â (GPS time, quaternion)Â \
    Â Â  \"time\": **[N/A]{.underline}**\
    Â Â Â  \"attitude\": **[\~ 766 km]{.underline}**

<!-- -->

h.  *SENSOR FIELD OF VIEW*Â **[N/A]{.underline}**

<!-- -->

i.  *SENSOR EFFECT (e.g. temporary impairment of sensor, permanent damage)*Â **[Unlocked, out of parameter, not functional]{.underline}**

<!-- -->

j.  *POST EVENT STATUS OF SATELLITE*Â **[OperationalÂ ]{.underline}**

<!-- -->

k.  *EVENT ASSOCIATION (linked to OPSCAP and/or SYSCAP change)*Â N/AÂ 

## STIX 2.1 Proof of Concept

- **TITLE** ðŸ¡ª Report

  - Description: Full report (Summary, Anomaly Details, Satellite/Sensor Details)

    - URL: [SMOS FOS Report for Week 10, Year
      2025](https://ftp-qras.earth.esa.int/smos/smos_instruments/weekly/2025/smos--smos_instruments--weekly--20250303.pdf)

    - Title: ESAC Ops Report for Week 10

- **8 March 2025 Anomaly ðŸ¡ª** Incident

- **SATELLITE AFFECTED ðŸ¡ª** Identity

  - SMOS Satellite NORAD ID 36036

- **SPARTA TTPs ðŸ¡ª** Attack Pattern

  - IMP-0002 Disruption

  - IMP-0003 Denial

- **SATELLITE LOCATION AT TIME OF ANOMALY ðŸ¡ª** Location

  - Brazil: - 17.75 Lat, 335.36 Long

![](media/image9.png){width="6.5in" height="1.96875in"}

![](media/image10.png){width="6.5in" height="2.1954997812773405in"}

## Consolidated Mapping of Identified Elements in Reporting Examples

This chart shows an overall representation of data elements that were extruded from each use case and does not factor in how they were mapped in the
current STIX 2.1 format. Items marked as Y show elements that were identified in the corresponding use cases. Items marked as N show which were not
present in the source report.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **EEIs**                                                   **Use Case #1**    **Use Case #2**    **Use Case #3**    **Use Case #4**    **Use Case #5**
  --------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------
  NORAD ID                                                          Y                  Y                  N                  N                  Y

  UTC Event Start                                                   Y                  Y                  Y                  Y                  Y

  UTC Event Stop                                                    Y                  Y                  Y                  Y                  Y

  TLE Before Event                                                  N                  N                  N                  N                  N

  TLE After Event                                                   N                  N                  N                  N                  N

  GPS Time                                                          Y                  Y                  Y                  N                  N

  ECEF Position and Velocity                                        Y                  Y                  N                  N                  N

  Orbital Altitude at Point of Anomaly                              N                  N                  N                  N                  N

  Terrestrial Lat and Long Correlation                              Y                  Y                  Y                  N                  N

  Orbit (LEO, SSO, HEO, MEO, GEO)                                   N                  N                  N                  N                  Y

  Exhibited Anomaly Capture (Narrative)                             Y                  Y                  Y                  Y                  Y

  Exhibited Anomaly Payload Impact                                  Y                  Y                  Y                  N                  N

  Uplink or Downlink Impacted                                       N                  N                  Y                  N                  N

  Frequency Band Impacted                                           Y                  Y                  N                  N                  N

  Additional Anomalies Captured                                     N                  N                  Y                  N                  N

  Anomaly Type Capture (Interference, Jamming, Spoofing,            Y                  Y                  Y                  Y                  Y
  Space WX)                                                                                                                             

  Aerospace SPARTA TTPs (as assigned by Owner/Operator)             N                  N                  N                  N                  N

  Aerospace SPARTA TTPs (as assigned by Space ISAC WC)              Y                  Y                  Y                  Y                  Y

  MITRE ATT&CK TTPs                                                 N                  N                  N                  N                  N

  MITRE D3FEND TTPs                                                 N                  N                  N                  N                  N

  MITRE FIGHT TTPs                                                  N                  N                  N                  N                  N

  Associated Ground Station at Point of Impact or Anomaly           N                  N                  N                  N                  N

  Polarization                                                      N                  N                  N                  N                  N

  Sensor Field of View                                              Y                  Y                  N                  N                  N

  Sensor Point Angle During Anomaly                                 Y                  Y                  N                  N                  N

  Post Event Status of Satellite (Non-Operational vs                Y                  Y                  N                  N                  Y
  Operational)                                                                                                                          

  **Total Number of Correlations**                                **14**             **14**             **10**             **5**        
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
